'\" t
.\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH SENSEMAP 5WN "July 2005" "WordNet 2.1" "WordNet\(tm File Formats"
.SH NAME
2.0to2.1.noun.poly \- mapping from polysemous noun senses in WordNet 2.0 to 
corresponding 2.1 senses
.LP
2.0to2.1.noun.mono \- mapping from monosemous noun senses in WordNet 2.0 to 
corresponding 2.1 senses
.LP
2.0to2.1.verb.poly \- mapping from polysemous verb senses in WordNet 2.0 to 
corresponding 2.1 senses
.LP
2.0to2.1.verb.poly \- mapping from monosemous verb senses in WordNet 2.0 to 
corresponding 2.1 senses
.SH DESCRIPTION
WordNet users who have semantically tagged text to senses in version
2.0, or who have statically assigned or used 2.0 senses in other
applications should upgrade to WordNet 2.1 if possible.  To help users
automatically convert 2.0 noun and verb senses to their corresponding 2.1
senses, we provide sense mapping information with version 2.1.

The sense mapping was done as follows:

.RS
.TP 5
\(bu 
Nouns and verbs unique to either database were ignored.
.TP 5
\(bu 
Nouns and verbs that are monosemous in both databases were found and their
\fIsense_key\fPs and \fIsynset_offset\fPs were mapped.  These sense
mappings are in the files \fB2.0to2.1.{noun,verb}.mono\fP.
.TP 5
\(bu 
All senses of polysemous nouns and verb in version 2.0 were mapped to senses in
version 2.1.  Various heuristics were used to evaluate the similarity
of 2.0 and 2.1 senses, and a score was assigned to each comparison.
For each word, each 2.0 sense was compared to all of the 2.1 senses
for the same word, and the 2.1 sense (or senses) with the highest
score was deemed the best mapping.  These sense mappings are in the
file \fB2.0to2.1.{noun,verb}.poly\fP.

Heuristics include comparison of sense keys, similarity of synset
terms, and relative tree location (comparision of 
hypernyms).  Glosses are not used for comparisions, as they are often 
significantly modified.
.RE
.SS File Format
A sense mapping is generally represented by two
\fIsense_key\fP~~\fIsynset_offset\fP pairs, one for the 2.0 sense and
one for its corresponding 2.1 sense.  For the polysemous sense mappings,
\fIsense_number\fP is also in each pair.  This field is not needed in
the monosemous mappings since all monosemous words are assigned
\fIsense_number\fP 1.  See
.BR senseidx (5WN)
for a detailed description of these fields. 

In all the mapping files, a space is the field delimiter unless
otherwise noted, and each line is terminated with a newline character.
.SS 2.0to2.1.{noun,verb}.mono
These files contain the mapping of sense keys for nouns and verbs that are
monosemous in both WordNet 2.0 and 2.1.  Although the actual words and
sense numbers are the same in both databases, not all \fIsense_keys\fP
are the same, and the \fIsynset_offset\fPs are different.  This file
is an alphabetized list of one mapping per line.  Each line is of the
form:

.RS
\fI2.0_sense_key\fP\fB;\fP\fI2.0_synset_offset~~2.1_sense_key\fP\fB;\fP\fI2.1_synset_offset\fP
.RE
.SS 2.0to2.1.{noun,verb}.poly
These files contain the mapping of sense keys for nouns and verbs that are
polysemous in WordNet 2.0 and are also found in 2.1.  This file is
sorted by score from highest score (100) to lowest (0), and then
alphabetically within each score.  Each line lists all 2.1 sense(s)
that the corresponding 2.0 sense maps to with that score.  Each line
is of the form:

.RS
\fIscore~~2.0_sense_info~~2.1_sense_info~~[2.1_sense_info...]\fR
.RE

where \fIsense_info\fP consists of the following three fields:

.RS
\fIsense_key\fP\fB;\fP\fIsynset_offset\fP\fB;\fP\fIsense_number\fP
.RE
.SH SCORES AND STATISTICS
Scores range from 0 to 100, and are an indication of how confident the
mapping heuristics are that the senses are the same \- a higher score
indicates greater reliability in the mapping.  The vast majority of
senses mapped with a score of 90 or 100.  Mappings with a score of 
90 or greater make up
98% of the total nouns senses mapped, and 97% of the total
verb senses mapped.

.SS Noun Statistics

There are 141,690 noun senses in WordNet 2.0. A total of 141,364
senses have been mapped to senses in version 2.1.  The remaining 326
senses represent noun senses unique to version 2.0.

A total of 42,726 senses for polysemous nouns are mapped in the file
\fB2.0to2.1.noun.poly\fP, with the following scores:

.TS
center box ;
c | c
r | r.
\fBScore\fP	\fBCount\fP
_
100	36992
90	5336
80	133
70	110
60	36
50	11
40	11
30	26
20	46
0	25
.TE

98,638 monosemous nouns are mapped in the file \fB2.0to2.1.noun.mono\fP.
.bp
.SS Verb Statistics

There are 24,632 verb senses in WordNet 2.0. A total of 24,617
senses have been mapped to senses in version 2.1.  The remaining 15
senses represent verb senses unique to version 2.0.

A total of 18,546 senses for polysemous verbs are mapped in the file
\fB2.0to2.1.verb.poly\fP, with the following scores:
.TS
center box ;
c | c
r | r.
\fBScore\fP	\fBCount\fP
_
100	17851
90	554
80	12
70	86
60	8
50	6
40	4
30	10
20	12
0	3
.TE

6,071 monosemous verbs are mapped in the file \fB2.0to2.1.verb.mono\fP.

.SH NOTES
The number of senses of a polysemous word in version 2.0 often differs
from the number of senses for the same word in version 2.1.  While
there will always be a mapping for each 2.0 sense to one or more 2.1
senses, there may be 2.1 senses to which no 2.0 sense is mapped.

WordNet 2.0 words not found in either of the monsemous maps
are unique to version 2.0, and therefore cannot be
mapped to version 2.1.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
.B WNHOME
Base directory for WordNet.  Unix default is
\fB/usr/local/WordNet-2.1\fP, Windows default is 
\fBC:\eProgram~Files\eWordNet\e2.1\fP.
.SH FILES
All files are in \fBWNHOME/sensemap\fP on Unix platforms,
\fBWNHOME\esensemap\fP on Windows.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B 2.0to2.1.noun.poly
mapping of polysemous 2.0 noun senses to 2.1 senses
.TP 20
.B 2.0to2.1.verb.poly
mapping of polysemous 2.0 verb senses to 2.1 senses
.TP 20
.B 2.0to2.1.noun.mono
mapping of monosemous 2.0 noun senses to 2.1 senses
.TP 20
.B 2.0to2.1.verb.mono
mapping of monosemous 2.0 verb senses to 2.1 senses
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR senseidx (5WN),
.BR wndb (5WN),
.BR wnpkgs (7WN).

